hi this is yolanda vanveen from
vanveenbulbs.com and next we're going to
talk all about red hot pokers ernit
puffier in the fovea
however you want to pronounce it but
either way there are really pretty
plants now red hot pokers are originally
from South Africa so they can handle
quite a bit of cold temperature people
tell me that they can grow them in
Minnesota even and all they do is mulch
them a little bit so they can handle a
lot of cold weather and a story I like
to remember is they were found in South
Africa in the 1600s 1500s even they
brought them to England and they only
grew them in the greenhouses because
they assumed everything had to grow in
greenhouses that was from South Africa
and then into the 1700s a farmer
actually accidentally left some outside
and they survived the winter so they
realized then that a lot of South
African plants can grow in England and
colder climates so took them 200 years
to figure it out so I'm always amazed
that they're such a tough plant now
red-hot pokers get these big candy corn
type flowers on them they're red and
yellow and hummingbirds love them
they're probably my number one
hummingbird plant next to crocosmia and
they're just a root so when I'm growing
them you don't really need to do a whole
lot you don't need to transplant them
very often they love to be crowded and
as I said they're just a rootstock so
you can even separate them out very
easily so they'll multiply quickly so
over the years you can separate a
mountain five ten years from now and
you'll get lots and lots of starts so as
long as you've got some root and some
stem you can start a new plant and
saying that I've even found little
pieces of root and planted them and
they've made it so just make sure that
the roots are covered up but the greens
exposed and they're pretty tough these
we just transplanted not too long ago so
I think it might take them a couple
years to really look good and get
growing but I just love them and they're
easy to divide I used to think that they
were just a grandma's flower because I
saw them in a lot of older ladies yards
but now I've realized that the
hummingbirds love them and I love them
and that they're one of the joys of my
garden